README.md, before:

# ibm-service-validator

Extends [Schemathesis](https://github.com/kiwicom/schemathesis) to test [IBM API Handbook](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/api-handbook?topic=api-handbook-intro) compliance and consistency between an API implementation and its OpenAPI definition.

Issues may be opened [here](https://github.ibm.com/arf/planning-sdk-squad/issues).

## Overview

This tool takes an OpenAPI definition, a valid API endpoint, and any necessary API credentials and verifies that the API implementation complies with its OpenAPI definition and the [IBM API Handbook](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/api-handbook?topic=api-handbook-intro).

## Install

1. Find the version of the endpoint validator you want to use in the [releases](https://github.ibm.com/CloudEngineering/ibm-service-validator/releases) tab.
2. In your current working directory, download the corresponding .whl (recommended) or .tar.gz file.
3. `pip install ibm_service_validator-<version>.whl` or `pip install ibm_service_validator-<version>.tar.gz`

## Use

### Run

The `run` command runs a suite of tests against the service using an API definition.

    ibm-service-validator run <path API definition> --base-url <base URL of API> [options]

#### run options

- -a (--auth): provide server username and password in the form `username:password`.
- -A (--auth-type): authentication mechanism. May be "basic" or "digest" (default is "basic").
- -b (--base-url): base url of the service to be tested.
- -H (--header): custom header to include in all requests. Example: `-H Authorization:Bearer\ 123`.
- -x (--exitfirst): flag to exit and report on the first error or test failure.
- --show-errors-tracebacks: flag to show error tracebacks for internal errors.
- --store-request-log: name of yaml file in which to store logs of requests made during testing. Example: `--store-request-log=logs.yaml`.
- --hypothesis-deadline: number of milliseconds allowed for the server to respond (default is 500). Example: `--hypothesis-deadline=300`.
- --hypothesis-phases: determines how test data will be generated. **The default value, `explicit`, indicates test data will only be generated from examples in the OpenAPI definition.** Example: `--hypothesis-deadline=explicit,generate` will use explicit OpenAPI examples and generate test data.
  - `explicit`: test data generated from examples. Recommended.
  - `reuse`: reuse old test data.
  - `generate`: test data generated from schema definition.
  - `target`: mutate test data for targeting.
  - `shrink`: shrink test data.
- --hypothesis-verbosity: control how much information is reported.
  - `quiet`
  - `normal`
  - `verbose`
  - `debug`

Filter tests by endpoints, methods, and/or tags that match a given endpoint/method/tag pattern.

- -E (--endpoint)
- -M (--method)
- -T (--tag)

Options when generating test data from schema definitions (test data comes from OpenAPI examples by default):

- --hypothesis-derandomize: this flag is used to generate test data deterministically instead of generating random, valid test data.
- --hypothesis-max-examples: this value determines the maximum number of tests to generate for each method. Example: `--hypothesis-max-examples=50`.
- --hypothesis-seed: provide a seed from which random test data will be generated.

### Replay

The `replay` command runs a snapshot of tests and compares new results to the original results. This command takes a file with logs from a previous run of tests.

    ibm-service-validator replay path/to/logs.yaml [options]

Note: To capture these logs, run the service validator with the `--store-request-log` option.

#### replay options

- --id: run a specific request by providing the request id (`--id 1`).
- --status: run only the requests with a specific status code (`--status SUCCESS`).
  - SUCCESS
  - ERROR
  - FAILURE
- --uri: run the requests that contain the given uri (`--uri path1/resources`)
- --method: run only the requests that use the given HTTP method (`--method GET`)

## Configuration

### Configuration File

Rules may be configured using a `ibm-service-validator-config.yaml` or `ibm-service-validator-config.json` file.

We look for a configuration file in the current working directory from which the service validator is invoked, and we search up the directory until we find the first matching config file. It is recommended to create this configuration file in the root directory of your project.

Rules may be on or off. An example of the configuration file is given below:

    ibm_cloud_api_handbook:
        allow_header_in_405: 'off'
        default_response_content_type: 'off'
        location_201: 'off'
        no_422: 'off'
        no_accept_header: 'off'
        no_content_204: 'off'
        www_authenticate_401: 'off'
    schemathesis_checks:
        not_a_server_error: 'off'
        status_code_conformance: 'off'
        content_type_conformance: 'off'
        response_schema_conformance: 'off'

### Create Default Configuration File

To initialize a default configuration file in the current working directory, use:

    ibm-service-validator init [options]

#### init [options]

- -o (--overwrite): if config file already exists, overwrite the existing config file with default values.
- -j (--json): write the default config file as json.

## Including Examples in API Definition

Often, a service's requirements are stricter than its schema. For example, an `account_id` may have schema, `type: string`. However, a valid `account_id` is restricted to the set of strings associated with an accounts. For this reason, the default way to generate requests is to use [OpenAPI examples](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/adding-examples/) in the API definition.

### Important Note on Property Examples

Examples for object properties should be provided in an example object rather than on a per-property basis. Hence, for the schema:

    schema:
        type: object
        properties:
        id:
            type: integer
        name:
            type: string

Provide an example object:

    schema:
        type: object
        properties:
        id:
            type: integer
        name:
            type: string
        example:
            id: 10
            name: Jessica Smith

Instead of individual property examples:

    schema:
        type: object
        properties:
        id:
            type: integer
            example: 10
        name:
            type: string
            example: Jessica Smith

Commit message:

Add configurable warnings (#19)
- Support 'warn' keyword in the configuration file.
- Create an OutputHandler that allows conversion of test failures to warnings.
- Test the output produced by the new output handler.

- Update API handbook rule to reflect changes in Schemathesis Endpoint class.

README.md, after:

# ibm-service-validator

Extends [Schemathesis](https://github.com/kiwicom/schemathesis) to test [IBM API Handbook](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/api-handbook?topic=api-handbook-intro) compliance and consistency between an API implementation and its OpenAPI definition.

Issues may be opened [here](https://github.ibm.com/arf/planning-sdk-squad/issues).

## Overview

This tool takes an OpenAPI definition, a valid API endpoint, and any necessary API credentials and verifies that the API implementation complies with its OpenAPI definition and the [IBM API Handbook](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/api-handbook?topic=api-handbook-intro).

## Install

1. Find the version of the endpoint validator you want to use in the [releases](https://github.ibm.com/CloudEngineering/ibm-service-validator/releases) tab.
2. In your current working directory, download the corresponding .whl (recommended) or .tar.gz file.
3. `pip install ibm_service_validator-<version>.whl` or `pip install ibm_service_validator-<version>.tar.gz`

## Use

### Run

The `run` command runs a suite of tests against the service using an API definition.

    ibm-service-validator run <path API definition> --base-url <base URL of API> [options]

#### run options

- -a (--auth): provide server username and password in the form `username:password`.
- -A (--auth-type): authentication mechanism. May be "basic" or "digest" (default is "basic").
- -b (--base-url): base url of the service to be tested.
- -H (--header): custom header to include in all requests. Example: `-H Authorization:Bearer\ 123`.
- -x (--exitfirst): flag to exit and report on the first error or test failure.
- --show-errors-tracebacks: flag to show error tracebacks for internal errors.
- --store-request-log: name of yaml file in which to store logs of requests made during testing. Example: `--store-request-log=logs.yaml`.
- --hypothesis-deadline: number of milliseconds allowed for the server to respond (default is 500). Example: `--hypothesis-deadline=300`.
- --hypothesis-phases: determines how test data will be generated. **The default value, `explicit`, indicates test data will only be generated from examples in the OpenAPI definition.** Example: `--hypothesis-deadline=explicit,generate` will use explicit OpenAPI examples and generate test data.
  - `explicit`: test data generated from examples. Recommended.
  - `reuse`: reuse old test data.
  - `generate`: test data generated from schema definition.
  - `target`: mutate test data for targeting.
  - `shrink`: shrink test data.
- --hypothesis-verbosity: control how much information is reported.
  - `quiet`
  - `normal`
  - `verbose`
  - `debug`

Filter tests by endpoints, methods, and/or tags that match a given endpoint/method/tag pattern.

- -E (--endpoint)
- -M (--method)
- -T (--tag)

Options when generating test data from schema definitions (test data comes from OpenAPI examples by default):

- --hypothesis-derandomize: this flag is used to generate test data deterministically instead of generating random, valid test data.
- --hypothesis-max-examples: this value determines the maximum number of tests to generate for each method. Example: `--hypothesis-max-examples=50`.
- --hypothesis-seed: provide a seed from which random test data will be generated.

### Replay

The `replay` command runs a snapshot of tests and compares new results to the original results. This command takes a file with logs from a previous run of tests.

    ibm-service-validator replay path/to/logs.yaml [options]

Note: To capture these logs, run the service validator with the `--store-request-log` option.

#### replay options

- --id: run a specific request by providing the request id (`--id 1`).
- --status: run only the requests with a specific status code (`--status SUCCESS`).
  - SUCCESS
  - ERROR
  - FAILURE
- --uri: run the requests that contain the given uri (`--uri path1/resources`)
- --method: run only the requests that use the given HTTP method (`--method GET`)

## Configuration

### Configuration File

Rules may be configured using a `ibm-service-validator-config.yaml` or `ibm-service-validator-config.json` file.

We look for a configuration file in the current working directory from which the service validator is invoked, and we search up the directory until we find the first matching config file. It is recommended to create this configuration file in the root directory of your project.

Rules may be on, off, or warn. An example of the configuration file is given below:

    ibm_cloud_api_handbook:
        allow_header_in_405: 'on'
        default_response_content_type: 'on'
        location_201: 'warn'
        no_422: 'off'
        no_accept_header: 'warn'
        no_content_204: 'on'
        www_authenticate_401: 'warn'
    schemathesis_checks:
        not_a_server_error: 'on'
        status_code_conformance: 'warn'
        content_type_conformance: 'warn'
        response_schema_conformance: 'on'

### Create Default Configuration File

To initialize a default configuration file in the current working directory, use:

    ibm-service-validator init [options]

#### init [options]

- -o (--overwrite): if config file already exists, overwrite the existing config file with default values.
- -j (--json): write the default config file as json.

## Including Examples in API Definition

Often, a service's requirements are stricter than its schema. For example, an `account_id` may have schema, `type: string`. However, a valid `account_id` is restricted to the set of strings associated with an accounts. For this reason, the default way to generate requests is to use [OpenAPI examples](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/adding-examples/) in the API definition.

### Important Note on Property Examples

Examples for object properties should be provided in an example object rather than on a per-property basis. Hence, for the schema:

    schema:
        type: object
        properties:
        id:
            type: integer
        name:
            type: string

Provide an example object:

    schema:
        type: object
        properties:
        id:
            type: integer
        name:
            type: string
        example:
            id: 10
            name: Jessica Smith

Instead of individual property examples:

    schema:
        type: object
        properties:
        id:
            type: integer
            example: 10
        name:
            type: string
            example: Jessica Smith
